more contribution guide updates (#2173)
writethedocs/www: docs/guide/contributing.rst

Contributing to the Write the Docs guide
=========================================

Welcome! The guides at Write the Docs are meant to address all aspects of software documentation. 
To contribute to a guide, read on to understand our guides and how you can help.

How to contribute
-------------------

Anyone can contribute regardless of professional or tool experience. Contributions that respect our guide's 
current effort and state are treated with respect.

There are several ways to contribute:

* :ref:`Edit a single guide directly in the GitHub UI <update-guide-via-github>`.

> * :ref:`Edit files via git <update-guide-in-git>`.

Reviewer: Minor nit
```suggestion
* :ref:`Edit files using Git <update-guide-in-git>`.
```

Contributing to the Write the Docs guide
=========================================

Welcome! The guides at Write the Docs are meant to address all aspects of software documentation. 
To contribute to a guide, read on to understand our guides and how you can help.

Ways to contribute
-------------------

Anyone can contribute regardless of professional or tool experience. 
Contributions are treated with respect if they respect the current effort and state of 
our guide.

There are several ways to contribute to the content:

* Edit a single guide directly in GitHub.

> * For changes that span multiple files :ref:`create a fork, a branch, and a pull request <update-guide-in-git>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For changes that span multiple files, :ref:`create a fork, a branch, and a pull request <update-guide-in-git>`.
```
Not your change, but while we're in here. 😉

Contributing to the Write the Docs guide
=========================================

Welcome! The guides at Write the Docs are meant to address all aspects of software documentation. 
To contribute to a guide, read on to understand our guides and how you can help.

Ways to contribute
-------------------

Anyone can contribute regardless of professional or tool experience. 
Contributions are treated with respect if they respect the current effort and state of 
our guide.

There are several ways to contribute to the content:

* :ref:`Edit a single guide directly in GitHub <update-guide-via-github>`.
* For changes that span multiple files :ref:`create a fork, a branch, and a pull request <update-guide-in-git>`.
* `Submit an issue`_ to suggest small changes, new content, or to file bugs against existing content.

We encourage you to learn some of the tools we use, but if you don't want to use 
GitHub, email attachments or inline text to guide@writethedocs.org.

> Where to contribute
> --------------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What to contribute
-------------------
```

Author: Thanks for the recommendation. I was definitely considering to update and will do so since you are obviously in agreement.

* High-level discussions of common tools. 

For help organizing a new topic within the current guide, `ask in Slack`_, or `file a GitHub issue`_.

Contribution guidelines
-------------------------

* Use a friendly and encouraging tone. It's a good way to write docs, so practice with docs about docs!

* Attribute links and mention why linked resources are useful.

* Use `reStructuredText (.rst)`_ (`Markdown`_ is also acceptable).

* Focus content on general principles and best practices. Arguing over minor points impedes clarity. 

* Avoid enforcing personal preferences. For example, if you recommend a word choice, tell the audience why it matters.

Additionally, follow these guidelines when discussing tools: 

* Ensure your content is of interest to a general audience.
* Avoid advocacy and plugs about your favorite toolchain, even if it's open source.
* Present specific use cases, how problems were solved, and what worked or didn't work well. 
* Consider to first `file a GitHub issue`_ or contact a guide editor at guide@writethedocs.org.

.. _update-guide-via-github:

Editing a single guide via the GitHub UI
-------------------------------------------

> 1. Click the pencil icon to edit this file in your fork of the www repo.

Reviewer: Looking at this again, steps 4 & 5 from what used to be called the prerequisites are kind of necessary here. Sorry I was so focused on not forcing people to install Git when using only the UI. 🙈 
```suggestion
1. In the [Write the Docs www project](https://github.com/writethedocs/www), find the file name corresponding to an [existing issue](https://github.com/writethedocs/www/issues) or page you want to improve.

   For example, /docs/documentarians.rst creates https://www.writethedocs.org/documentarians/.

1. Review formatting guidelines for the Markup style the file uses. The example file above uses [reStructuredText (.rst)](https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/restructuredtext/basics.html).
1. Click the pencil icon to create a fork of the `www` repo and edit the file there.
```

Not a blocker, but might be nice 🤷

Author: I included similar changes in my latest commit.

* Developer tools or docs-as-code toolchains and workflows.
* High-level discussions of common tools. 

For help finding the best fit for new topics in the rest of 
the guide, `ask in Slack`_, or `file a GitHub issue`_.

Contribution guidelines
-------------------------

> General guidelines include:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

Somewhat tongue in cheek, but also not really

> * Use a friendly and encouraging tone. It's a good way to write docs, so practice with a guide at Write the Docs!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Use a friendly and encouraging tone. It's a good way to write docs, so practice with docs about docs!
```
I think the original was a nice turn of phrase. Not a requirement or anything.

Author: That's strange. I honestly have no idea where that "docs about docs" thing came from. I don't recall writing it. It may have been a copy/paste from somewhere else in the doc because there was a lot of repeat content. I'll definitely investigate further.

Reviewer: Seems like it's [been there for 6 years](https://github.com/writethedocs/www/blame/32ef981f5490c5dc99c68afc15203eea3712d100/docs/guide/contributing.rst#L44). 🤷

Author: Oh, thanks for taking a look. I had it backwards...I thought you were saying I had added the "docs about docs" line. All good now!

* Attribute links and mention why linked resources are useful.

* Although some files in the guide are written in `Markdown`_, we prefer `reStructuredText (.rst)`_.

* Focus content on general principles and best practices instead of arguing over minor points that impede clarity and communication. 

* Avoid preferential editing that only offers your personal preferences for dealing with a particular writing situation. For example, if you recommend a word choice, tell the audience why it matters.

Additionally, follow these guidelines when discussing tools: 

* Ensure your content is of interest to a general audience.
* Avoid advocacy and plugs about your favorite toolchain, even if it's open source.
* Present specific use cases, how problems were solved, and what worked or didn't work well. 
* Consider to first `file a GitHub issue`_ or contact a guide editor at guide@writethedocs.org.

.. _prerequisites:

Prerequisites for contributing

> -------------------------------

Reviewer: I'm not sure I understand the need to make this longer. Could you explain? `Prerequisites` (or more informally `Before you start`) is a common heading in how-to guides, I think, and is usually clear enough on it's own, I would hope.

Reviewer: Especially true give that these aren't prerequisites for contributing, but for contributing in a certain way.

Author: Since, as you mentioned, these are prerequisites for contributing a certain way, should we actually clarify even further then? Something like "Prerequisites for contributing via git"? Otherwise, as you mentioned in another comment that the structure of the content should make the context of the prerequisites obvious, we should just move the prerequisites section under the "Update a guide in Write the Docs via a pull request" section.

Author: Also, we should be cognizant that many individuals will come to know about a section of a doc via a search on the website and that we should err towards extra context most of the time. Plus, SEO will care about how we name our headers such that we may need to be more redundant despite the context of the article (not that either of these arguments matter for this particular situation).  Just letting the group know where I'm coming from when thinking about header text. 

![Screenshot 2024-07-11 8 18 58 AM](https://github.com/writethedocs/www/assets/64424206/4dd995ea-366e-4b50-9900-ef996a8af303)

Reviewer: I don't think that someone will be searching for "prerequisites" but itself. I feel like SEO might actually be an argument for not having additional context in there. Because people shouldn't be coming to that heading on its own, just within the context.

Take an example from [Google's cloud docs[(https://cloud.google.com/run/docs/quickstarts/build-and-deploy/deploy-python-service) (which I assume would have some insight into the SEO advantages of headings). They consistently use `Before you begin`.

It's not something I feel would be blocking either way, just saying. 🙂

Author: I know they won't search for "prerequisites" by itself. I was providing an example to show one of the many reasons why we need to be careful about headers in general. 

The biggest takeaway from the example you provided from Google is that we shouldn't be using formal, complicated language like "prerequisites" at all and should use simpler text like "before you begin." Do you agree? Thanks for sharing the example!

Reviewer: Yeah, I like it better. I remembered it as `Before you start` in my first message in this thread, but really either way is fine.

   1. In macOS: Open the **Terminal** app.
   2. In Windows: From the Start Menu, open **Git Bash**.

4. In the `Write the Docs www project`_, find the file name corresponding to an `existing issue`_ or page you want to improve. 

For example, ``/docs/documentarians.rst`` creates https://www.writethedocs.org/documentarians/. 

5. Review formatting guidelines for the Markup style the file uses. The example file above uses `reStructuredText (.rst)`_.

.. _update-guide-via-github:

Editing a single guide directly in the GitHub UI
--------------------------------------------------

> 1. :ref:`Complete the prerequisites <prerequisites>`.

Reviewer: I see a couple problems with this:
* These aren't requirements for using the UI (only for the terminal)
* I don't think the first step in a guide should ever be "complete the prerequisites". I think that should be clear enough from the general structure.
Only the first is really a blocking issue.

> 2. Click the pencil icon to edit this file in your fork of the www repo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Click the pencil icon to create a fork of the `www` repo and start editing the file in it.
```
Assuming it's the first edit (since otherwise, they probably don't need the guide).

**In the GitHub UI:**

> 1. :ref:`Complete the prerequisites <prerequisites>`.

Reviewer: As above, I don't think this step adds clarity.

.. _Fork the Write the Docs www project: https://github.com/writethedocs/www/fork
.. _file a GitHub issue: https://github.com/writethedocs/www/issues/new
.. _Submit an issue: https://github.com/writethedocs/www/issues/new

> .. _reStructuredText (.rst): https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/restructuredtext/basics.html

Reviewer: Just noticed, is there a reason the Markdown link goes to the WTD intro but the rST one doesn't? There is a [WTD intro to rST](https://writethedocs-www--2173.org.readthedocs.build/guide/writing/reStructuredText/). Not a big deal, just seemed curious. 🤷

Author: I'm not sure. I thought I used whatever links were already present in the document. I'll review to see which feels like a better source to link to and adjust accordingly in my next commit. Thanks for bringing this up.

Author: Updated in latest commit.
